---
layout: post
title: Home Studio Project
subtitle: Or, how to build your own post production studio.
---

Have you ever watched one of those "making of" [featurettes](https://www.fxguide.com/quicktakes/ghost-in-the-voxel-shells/), or read an [article](https://www.wired.com/2014/10/astrophysics-interstellar-black-hole/) about a recent movie release, where some reference is made to the hundreds of hours of rendering time, or the huge quantities of data consumed, in order to create a certain visual effect?  

Have you ever wondered what, exactly, is involved in maintaining all of those long-running renders, or how a post production studio manages the ocean of data generated throughout the course of a feature film production?

In this series of articles, I will draw on my professional experience as a system administrator and software engineer in the film vfx and animation industry, to reveal the inner workings of a large scale post production studio, and to demonstrate how you too can build a vfx studio of your very own, within your own home.

# Objective

The primary goal of this admittedly ambitious project, is to construct a fully functional home vfx studio, and to demonstrate to others how to replicate my efforts.

# Rules

As an added challenge, the following self-imposed rules will apply:

 * Any software used must be free, open source, or developed and publicly released by myself.
 * Any solutions designed, or systems used, must be theoretically capable of serving in a similar role within a professional, large scale, vfx or animation studio. 

# Outcomes

By embarking upon this endeavour I'm hoping to achieve the following outcomes:

 * To improve my skills as a software engineer, by learning how to use some new technologies, frameworks and techniques.
 * To try out a few ideas I've had over the years but have never had a chance to put into practise professionally.
 * To contribute, by sharing some of the knowledge and experience I've gained with others, and, hopefully, by developing some useful software to share.

# Disclaimers

Before we proceed, there are a couple of important disclaimers I wish to make known:

 * Every post production studio has its own way of working, and its own unique approach to solving the same set of problems. The solutions that I describe for the different components of the home vfx studio won't necessarily define the only way to solve a particular problem, as they'll be based on the experience that I have gained working for a particular group of studios. What I'll try to do in each case is to outline the best possible approach that I'm aware of, and provide pointers to potential alternatives where relevant.
 * None of the information that I disclose in this series will be specific to any of the post production studios where I have been employed over the past decade or so. The reason for this is simple - in order to work for each of these companies, it was necessary to sign a strict non-disclosure agreement to protect the intellectual property and trade secrets of my employers. The implication of this is that any of the information I provide will be general in nature, or gleaned from resources which have already been made public.

# What's next? 

In the next article, I'll describe the studio I'm planning to build in more detail, and outline some of the components it will require. 

Get ready, we have a long journey ahead!
