---
layout: post
title: Studio Overview
subtitle: High level requirements and studio components.
---

In this post, I'll spend some time outlining a few important high-level requirements of the home studio that I'm attempting to build. I'll also include an overview of some of the key components that this studio will require. 

The intention of this post is to provide an outline which will serve as a simple roadmap to help guide and direct my ongoing development efforts. Hopefully these details will also prove useful to you in your own planning process, should you have decided to construct a studio of your own!

# Requirements

## Content

One of the key things to be thinking about as you design your home studio is the nature of the creative work that you ultimately intend to be able to deliver. The type of work to be undertaken will have certain implications for the capabilities that your studio will need to be able to provide.

Most film projects for example, fall into one of two main categories:

 - <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Animation">Animation</a>, where artists manually create each of the characters, props and environments for the show and combine them with rigs, animation, or <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Motion_capture">motion capture</a> performances of live actors, and
 - <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Visual_effects">Visual effects</a> (VFX), where artists integrate digital elements with live action footage recorded by cameras on a film set in order to create imagery which is otherwise challenging or impossible (for various reasons) to capture on film.

In general, animation projects will tend to be more 3D heavy (e.g., <a href="http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0114709/">Toy Story</a>), and require a different set of tools to vfx projects which are often more 2D oriented (e.g., <a href="http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0372784/">Batman Begins</a>). In reality however, there's normally quite a lot of overlap between the two, and it really depends on the specific requirements of the project at hand.

The studio I describe in these articles will be designed primarily with vfx projects in mind, however most of the systems and solutions covered will also be relevant to a studio with more of a focus on animation work, as the majority of vfx projects will also generally include some element of 3D modelling and animation.

## Ecosystem

Another important aspect to consider is the wider ecosystem in which your studio will be hosted. A real world production studio does not operate in isolation. Most projects will have a client (or clients) to whom the project is to be delivered to, and each client will have specific requirements with regard to the structure and format of the deliverables which must be adhered to.

Now, unless you plan to set up your home studio for commercial work, in all likelihood you will be acting as your own client, so in practice, full support for a formal client delivery workflow will likely be less of a concern. Since I will be attempting to design and develop real-world studio solutions in this series of articles however, I will need to imagine that I have some external clients who are waiting on deliverables and include support for some common scenarios.

Some of the larger post production companies also operate multiple studios, sometimes situated in geographically disparate locations (e.g., different countries or continents). One or more of these studios may be engaged in work on a single large scale project, requiring coordination and sharing of resources. A multi-site studio environment such as this will impose its own special set of (often complex) technical requirements which can be very difficult to implement after the fact, so it's worthwhile giving this some thought ahead of time. 

Once again, in keeping with my goal to develop real-world solutions, I'll be pretending that my studio is one of a number of cooperating sites situated in different countries around the world. This will force me to consider multi-site studio requirements up front in my designs, and will hopefully result in systems that are able to operate successfully in such a complex global environment.

## Security

One final high level requirement which I would like to mention here is that of security. It is a crucial responsibility of any post production organisation to maintain the security of the digital assets which have been created by it or entrusted to it (e.g., by a film company), and any associated intellectual property, in order to prevent <a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2010/01/13/nyregion/13wolverine.html">leaks</a> or the piracy of projects under development.

Some production companies (e.g., <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marvel_Studios">Marvel Studios</a>) will even require downstream studios to comply with strict physical and digital security requirements (audits are a common practice), in order to be awarded work on one of their projects. 

The <a href="http://www.mpaa.org/">MPAA</a> has developed a set of guidelines (<a href="http://fightfilmtheft.org/docs/CG.pdf">pdf</a>) outlining best practices for the maintenance of content security. While not strictly necessary for our purposes, it is worth keeping these guidelines in mind, especially if you intend to undertake work on commercial projects within your home studio environment.

Needless to say, security will need to be a key requirement of any of the solutions we develop.

# Components

So, what are some of the main components that this vfx studio will need? 

 - *Infrastructure*: This component represents the core IT infrastructure that any business needs, including hardware (servers, workstations, networking, storage, backups, etc) and software (authentication, <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_Operating_Environment">SOE</a>, communications services, software development tools, etc).
 - *Core Systems*: The core systems component comprises those studio services which will be required across all projects being undertaken at the facility, including production databases, asset and render management, data migration, notifications and automation engine, etc. 
 - *Pipeline Tools*: Every studio ends up with a large suite of pipeline tools covering a wide range of functionality. These tools may include custom plugins for different <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_content_creation">DCC</a> applications to allow them to integrate seamlessly with core studio systems and production workflows, scripts for data ingest, deliveries, automation and monitoring.
 - *Production Tools*: The production department at a vfx studio will require their own suite of tools in order to assist in the management of day-to-day operations, including tools for running dailies sessions and reviews, scheduling and task tracking systems, reporting tools, etc.
 - *Artist Tools*: Each of the different creative departments in the studio will have their own unique requirements for custom toolsets to aid them in their specific tasks. Editorial, for example, will require tools to help update the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edit_decision_list">EDL</a> with the latest renders, and feed modifications to the timeline back into the production database. Animators and compositors may require custom tools to help simplify their workflows, and so on.

We'll need to look at each of these components in turn and decide how to address their requirements within the context of a home studio.

# What's next?

Next up, we'll start taking a closer look at infrastructure, in particular, some of the hardware and software requirements of the underlying platform which will host the higher level applications used within the studio. Once we've examined this topic in a bit more detail, we'll start taking our first concrete steps towards the construction of our studio, by beginning to assemble some of the foundational infrastructure which we will need!
